- [Spiritual Thinking](../)
  - [Human Life](../human-life/)
  - [Close to the Earth](../close-to-the-earth/)
  - [The Rays](../the-rays/)
  - [Visionary Observations](../visionary-observations/)

# Human Life

There are many books written on the subject of human life – the “whys” & “wherefores”, and certainly they can instruct, reveal, and generally lay the path to knowledge, but no book can give one total enlightenment – it can “open the door” and this allows the seeker to search for more, there are many doors and many blind alleys.

The world and its inhabitants are loved, without the conscious knowledge of most inhabitants. But no one is discarded or ignored. Many people find a “partial” form of enlightenment and relate this to their particular “saviour”, but to have total enlightenment adds up to a total understanding of the relationship we have with this world and others beyond it, both seen (the physical, cosmos, i.e. planets, stars), and (mostly unseen. The people who guide us mostly – without our knowledge, can be reached if we really need this – but it’s not necessary – all they want is to help us, and if we acknowledge their existence (meditation) that is all they need. they need no names (but names can be given – if we need them). They are on the same evolutionary spiral as we are. We start as a spark of consciousness and evolve through many stages of life or rather, lives, to eventually become “enlightened” beings in bodies and/or spirit). We don’t automatically become enlightened when we die. Many souls, cling to the Earth and don’t let go, so have more lives to lead, until eventually they are ready to “move on”. The laws of the universe (or universes – there are others) are not necessarily like laws of man. we need laws, of course – but Love reigns, supreme in whatever form it takes. Love should never be denied – as the opposite to Love is a negative vibration – a denial of ourselves, and are (continued) existence.

## My Own Journey

It’s the same as when I was led towards DLM (a Hindu-based religious organisation). Gradually after I passed through the various “insights” and meditated seriously – I began to “see” life in a different way. Instead of “pushing” outwards towards a life of activity and attainment. I gradually started to explore my inner world – something I had never acknowledged or felt it necessary to do. It was like sitting in a balloon. I could see out all around, but instead of pushing against the walls of the balloon in an attempt to free myself, I sat inside, contemplating the security of being inside this space, studying its shape, smoothness, iridescence, enjoying the novel experience.

I found I *had* an inner self, one that didn’t need orthodox religion to “show me the way”! I had never wanted anyone to “show me the way” to anywhere! I felt completely self–sufficient and confident. I had carried out my life without any help from anyone – that is, in a spiritual sense of course. I did get practical help now and then, although I don’t think I realised this at the time – I didn’t consider it particularly important – i.e. I took it for granted. This self-confidence was not always in view, there were occasions when I felt inferior or unable to face the immediate future. A lot of that was normal of course, in the period of “flowering” into adulthood. I was definitely a shy person before this war came, and after I had joined the WRVS, and the war had finished my confidence had increased 100%. I then saw how easy it was to do the things one wanted to do. My reaction is still “go for it”. So many people hang back, uncertain, surrounded by doubts – that they never achieve anything – or at least, not visibly!
