# Letter to Friends

I wrote this in response to friends who had lost a baby in pregnancy, after being childless for ten years.

“Read, not to contradict and confute, not to believe and take for granted, but to weigh and consider” —Francis Bacon.

These are random jottings just as they came to me.

There are many physical and spiritual abilities the human being possesses, about which we know very little, and when, in the course of time, we are confronted with these ‘phenomena’ in another person or situation, we tend to shy away - we are very often embarrassed and dismiss this alien (to us) property of the psyche as ‘weird’ or ‘rubbish’, or perhaps think it’s got nothing to do with our particular life. We think “There must be something wrong with him or her.”

Yet, there are millions of people on the planet who, whether they possess these gifts or not, have reason to believe in them by association with someone who uses their gift, maybe a physical gift, like healing (quite a few nurses have found they have the power of healing) or spiritual, a sensitive, who takes ‘dictation’ from a spiritual teacher (usually a discarnate - but not always so) and these people are more and more being recognised for their contribution to people’s lives. If we have open minds (not always easy to achieve) and start questioning, searching - really thinking, reading, listening - we have knocked on the first door, the one Jesus said would be opened to us - all Masters say the same things, in different ways, but the same, nevertheless.

There are so many ways of finding out who or what we really are and where we are going - what are we here for? etc. We look at religion - but it doesn’t seem to be for us - after all what has all that to do with us - it’s all in the past isn’t it? Well, for many people, religion is right and good and gives them all they need - they very often come to know themselves through religion - but it isn’t for everyone, and doesn’t seem to give the right answers to our problems.
Many people seek an answer through intellect - a very good way to start, but unless they are finding the answers, it won’t help altogether. However, whichever way we go, having once placed a foot on this path, we can at least go at our own rate - one can go too fast! When we need rest, we can stop and contemplate what we have learned - and more importantly, what we have experienced - up to that point. If we rush along we can suffer from a surfeit of spirituality after a while, we can’t always live on cloud 9 - because that what it does feel like.

Everyone wants to know in some degree, who we are, and where we’re heading - in short what is the Truth about Life - in fact is there a truth about life? There are times when, if we ignore gentle guidance from our guides and teachers, thinking we are going mad - not believing in all this spirit stuff - we can receive a very large shove in the right direction, and despite a certain reluctance to ‘dig deeper’ - after all “I’m alright as I am thank you”- we find ourselves left with no choice - it’s our turn to know what Truth is and that’s it! To be metaphorically dragged screaming into consciousness and awareness of ourselves and what we really are - not just body and mind but spirit as well - can be a very uncomfortable experience to say the least - but not everyone is as thick as I am when it comes to comprehension!

Many people on the spiritual path seem to follow certain patterns, depending on the level of the personality I suppose, and one swaps experiences with one’s fellow travellers. It’s like a game of chess, the details of each move may vary within the game but the result is inevitable. The experiences we receive may shake our previous concepts rigid, and it takes a little while to sort out the jigsaw - and many obstacles are placed in the way - but once we’ve stopped running away, stood very still and turned round to face reality in all its glory - and I say that with conviction - we take off - we hunger for more - we want to broadcast this beautiful truth to everyone - we don’t though, because those that do, sometimes run the risk of getting locked up! Once awakened, we realise we are not as limited as we thought we were - we become happier and start on the road to becoming the complete human, aware of our possibilities both on the physical and spiritual side of our beings. The normal (CONTINUES… page currently missing)